Study the features of Linux environment, basic Linux
commands(echo,who,date,pwd,cd,mkdir,rmdir,ls,cp,mv,rm,cat,more,wc,find,tail,head,sort,nl,uniq,gr
ep,egrep,fgrep,cut,paste,join,tee,comm,cmp,diff,tr); also document the syntax and semantics of
those commands. (any 10)
Solution:-
1.) echo command :- the “echo” commands helps us move some data, usually text into a file. For
example, if you want to write a new file(text file) ar add to an already made text, you just need to
type it, “echo hello, my name is Ram>>Name.txt”. No need to separate the spaces by using the
backward slash here, because we put is two triangular brackets where we finish writing.
2.) cat command :- Use the ‘cat’ command to display the contents of a file. It is usually used to
easily view programs.
3.) ls command :- Use the ‘ls’ command to know what files are in the directory you are in. You can
see all the hidden files by using the command “ls”.
4.) mkdir command :- Use the ‘mkdir’ command when you need to create a folder or a directory.
For example, if you want to make a directory called “CSE”, then you can type “mkdir CSE”.
5.) rmdir command :- Use the ‘rmdir’ command to delete a directory. But rmdir can only be used
to delete an empty directory.
6.) rm command :- Use the ‘rm’ command to delete files and directories. Use “rm-r” to delete just
the directory. It deletes both the folder and the files it contains when using only the ‘rm’ command.
7.) cd command :- Use the “cd” command to go to a directory. For example, if you are in the home
folder, and you want to go to the downloads folder, then you can type “cd path”.
→This command is case sensitive, type the name of the folder exactly.
→If you just type “cd” and press enter, it takes you to the home directory.
→To go back from a folder to the previous folder type “cd ..”. Two dots represents back.
8.) pwd command - When you first open the terminal, you are in the home directory of your user.
To know which directory you are, you can use the “pwd” command. It gives us the absolutepath,
which means the path that starts from the root. The root is the base of the Linux file system. It is
devoted to a forward slash ( / ). The user directory is usually something like “/home/username/”.
9.) head command :- Use the “head” command to display the starting content of a file. By default,
it displays the starting 10 lines of any file.
10.) date command - Use the “date” command to display date, time, time zone, etc. It is also used
to set the date and time of the Linux system.
